#summary The user manual
Download the complete user manual from: http://printruler.googlecode.com/files/userManual.pdf
= Introduction =
This manual will present you PrintRuler. PrintRuler is an application which will help you in your printing work. This application allows you to modify your document before you start the print job.
This document will describe the interface and all possibilities offers by PrintRuler.

= Installation =
To use PrintRuler, cups-pdf must be install on your system. The default parameters are right, no need to change.

=== Debian Distribution ===

To install the PrintRuler application on a Debian Distribution, you must download the Debian Package printruler.deb to this address : 
		_http://printruler.googlecode.com/files/printruler_20080618-1_i386.deb_

Next, you double-click on the downloaded file to open the PackageManager

This window allows to read the description and to check details and included files.
To finish the installation, press the button “Install Package”.

The install will process and a message will appear to indicate end of the install process.

The installation is finished.

If you want to add an icon to your desktop, linked to this application. Add a new launcher on your desktop and set Command as “printruler” and set Name as “PrintRuler”.

=== Others Linux Distribution and Mac OS ===
To install PrintRuler on other distributions, you need to compile youself the source-code. To do, start your terminal and type : 
	_qmake-qt4_
	or
	_qmake_
then
	_make release_
and to finish 
        _make install_
The installation is finished.

= Interface =

The interface is developed in C++ with the QT toolkit, if you change the default theme of your desktop, the change will be reported to PrintRuler.

== Menu and MenuBar ==
The Menu has following tools :
|| *Layout* || this tool allows to change the disposition of pages in the document. You can choose to put 1, 2, 4 or 8 pages on a single sheet of paper. You can make a booklet (if you choose this option, you can put maximum 4 pages on a sheet). The fact that booklet is selected, does not change the Preview. || IMG ||
|| *Margin and Border* || you can add a margin of 2 sizes and a border of 2 sizes || IMG ||
|| *List of jobs* || this is the list of documents you want to print. You can change the order or delete jobs you want not to print. To change the order, select a job and use the green arrows below the list to move the document up or down. To delete a document, select it and press the red cross below the list. || IMG ||
|| *Separate Jobs* || Separate Jobs indicates to not merge the documents together. e.g. it will let a blank page between 2 documents if the first has even pages and you print it in duplex. || IMG ||
|| *Show deleted pages* || shows the pages deleted before, with a red overlay layer. With this option, you can take back pages. More information in the chapter 3.2 Preview Panel. || IMG ||

The menubar has some other tools :
|| *Print Button* || it opens the PrintDialog window. More information in the chapter _PrintDialog and DuplexDialog_ || IMG ||
|| *Add Button* || allows to add new documents to the jobs list. It opens a browser to search documents in your file system. || IMG ||
|| *Zoom* || These tools zoom in or out your document to show you more distant or closer as the regular view. e.g. if you want to print 8pages on a sheet, it is very difficult to read some pages of the new document. || IMG ||

Menu
|| SubMenu || File || *Add* : q.v. Add Button ||
|| || || *Print* : q.v. Print Button || 
|| || || *Export as PDF* : allows to export the modified document as a PDF file ||
|| || || *Export as PS* : allows to export the modified document as a Postscript file. ||
|| || || *Close* : to shutdown the application.||
|| || Settings || *Configure* : allows to define which repository you want by default. This setting is discribe more in  chapter “How it work ?” ||
|| || About || *PrintRuler* : to know more about the project. ||

== Preview Panel and Indication ==
The *Preview Panel* is the most important object in PrintRuler, it allows you to see change,s which affect your documents before they are printed. 
This panel allows you 3 direct modfications to your page : 
 * *Delete* : it allow you to delete the current page. e.g. you can use it to remove advertising or useless blank pages at the end of documents to preserve quality and quantity. To undelete a page, check the option “Show deleted pages” to see the deleted pages.
 * *Add blank page before/after* : you can add a blank page before or after the current page. e.g. you can separate document or add blank page to start a new chapter on a new sheet of paper if you print 2 pages on one.

To make these actions, *make a right-click on the page*. A menu will appear with these 3 tools.

The *indication* shows how many pages will be print. 

== PrintDialog == 
The PrintDialog is a pop-up window which appear after clicking to start printing.It offers some tools describ in the next table.
|| *PrinterConfig* || After choose the printer you want use to print your document, you can modify properties. q.v. Illustration below. ||
|| *Tools* || You have 3 tools to change some some specifications. ||
|| ||  *Manual Duplex printing* : if your printer does not support the duplex printing, you must check this box. The printer will start to print the odd pages, a pop-up will appear to print the next even pages. ||
|| ||  *Rotate even pages (for booklet)* : to print a booklet, you must check this box if you print in duplex, the even pages will be reversed to fit to the booklet format. ||
|| ||  *Delete jobs afterwards* : check this box to delete the documents after print. ||
|| *Copies* || To select how many copies you want to print. ||
|| *Buttons* || You can choose to continu or to cancel the process. ||

= Demonstration =
In this demo, we will print this document with the document of the PrintRuler project. This part of this manual will be a step-by-step process to describe every step to print a single beautiful document.
First step, start the application :
	Start a terminal and write : 
		|| _printruler_ ||
	or
	Click the new icon you added to your desktop.
PrintRuler starts, a new window is open.

== Add new Job ==
 # Click [img_add] in the menu bar, a browser is open
 # Search document named “userManual.pdf”
 # Click [OK] to add this document to PrintRuler
 # Click [img_add] to add the second document named “PrintRulerDocumentation”.
Now, you have two jobs in the listjobs.
== Remove some pages ==
The documents contain pages with the Table of Contents, we are going to remove it.
 1. Use the scroll bar on the right side of the PreviewPanel to go down to the second page of the first job. It is the Table of Contents.
 # To remove it, make a right-click on the page
 # Select “Delete” in the new menu. The current is deleted. Good job.
   If you remove the wrong page, you can undelete it:
 # Just check the box “Show deleted pages” in the menu. The deleted pages appear in red.
 # Right-click the wrong deleted page.
 # Select “Undelete” in the new menu.
   Now you have deleted the Table of Contents of the first document.
   To remove the Table of Contents of the second document :
 # Zoom out  to have a distant view of documents
 # Use the scroll bar in the right of the PreviewPanel to go down and search the Table of Contents of the next document.
 # Make the step 2 and 3 to remove this pages.
   Now your document has no more pages with Table of Contents.
== change number of pages per sheet ==
To economize paper, we are going to set number of pages per sheet of paper.
 # Set the layout with the number “2” to configure 2 pages per sheet of paper.
== add big margin and small border ==
We are going to make a separation between pages on a single sheet of paper.
 # Set the margin to Big
 # Set the border to Small
Now your jobs are ready to be printed.
== Print in Grayscale on a A4 format paper on two sides ==
We are going to print. 
Press [img_print] to start the PrintDialog.
In the list of printer
 # Select your default printer
 # Click on Properties
  # Set the color to Grayscale
  # Set the duplex to “ON”
  # Set the format paper to A4.
   It is ok. You are ready to print. 
 # To finish, click on “Print” and enjoy the result to your printer.

